# DRBin
This repository contains the code needed to run the DRBin. Identifying and reconstructing microbial species from whole metagenomics data is a non-trivial task, and it is the basis for subsequent metagenomic analysis. we propose DRbin, which perform metagenomic contig binning based on the ability of nonlinear dimensionality reduction from deep representation learning and the outstanding performance of graph neural network in aggregating neighbor nodes. Since there is always information loss from sequencing to assembling during the acquisition of the contig sequence, DRbin mainly aims to these information losses and uses deep representation learning methods to reduce the noise of information and the loss of information caused by quality inspection, assembly and other processes to improve the result of binning. The variational autoencoder is employed to reduce the dimensionality of the abundance information and the composition information of the sequence, then we use the latent to construct the network. In the end, we use the aggregation ability of the graph neural network to aggregate the information of neighbor nodes and re-express the node vector for cluster analysis. The comparison with the traditional binning methods and the analysis of the results of DRbin in this paper show that our method has excellent performance in the reconstruction of microbial species from metagenomic data.
# How to use it
You can use our algorithm into three steps:  
(1). extract features and use VAE model to achieve latent vector.  
(2). Calculate KNN graph by latent vector and use GNN model to achieve representation vector.  
(3). Combine these two vectors as the input of our clustering algrithm, then get the binning result.  
These steps are shown in three jupyter notebook files int our code, you can get more details int the code.
